Fictional FPS campaign, pt. I
Prompt:
I am looking to write a fictional Call of Duty-style three-campaign fps storyline.
The setting is a fictional present-day global conflict. The story is told through the intertwining storylines of the three playable main characters, each
from a different background, and takes the player to a number of locations worldwide; from Frankfurt, Germany to Tokyo, Japan, southern Poland,
the eastern Mediterranean, and US locations including Utah, the Pacific Northwest, downtown LA, and naval bases in southwestern California.
The story centers on a conspiracy of a paramilitary group of unknown malicious actors that culminates in a catastrophic cyber attack on the US, and
several Western-aligned countries across the world in which automated military air and ground drones systems are taken over and turned against the
American citizens.
The three campaigns show three different perspectives of the conflict:
Campaign 1:
Critter Squad
LT Ramón "Romeo" Álvarez
Fire Team Delta - US Army 75th Ranger Regiment
Romeo, the Fire Team leader and his squad mates, callsigns Dingo, Howler, and Beaver, are deployed to eastern Poland to shore up defences at the
eastern NATO border against an anticipated Russian invasion attempt.
The ensuing cyber attack and turn of events sees Fire Team Delta escaping Russian encirclement near the southern border of Poland, evading drones,
and moving through eastern Czech republic and Austria to Germany to regroup with US and NATO forces at Ramstein Air Base.
Afterwards, Romeo and his squad are sent to team up with AEGIS Squad to protect classified geospatial intelligence infrastructure installations
located at sites in the Faroe islands, deep in the French Alps, on the remote Greek island of Lemnos in the Aegean Sea, and near the West-Frisian
town of Hinderloopen in the North of the Netherlands. In the final act of the campaign, command contacts Romeo over satellite phone and orders his
squad to return stateside immediately to help defend the US West Coast from an amphibious invasion by what appears to be a coalition of Russian,
North Korean, and Iranian forces. With all flights grounded due to the cyber attack, Fire Team Delta, with help from AEGIS Squad, make their way
across the Breton countryside to the French Naval Base at the Île Longue peninsula in Brittany where they help intercept an enemy sabotage
operation against the French garrison base and two nuclear french submarines stationed on location, Le Terrible, and Le Vigilant. Upon foiling the
enemy sabotage attempt and securing the garrison, AEGIS Squad are diverted to fight Russian invasion forces alongside a detachment of Dutch
Marine Corps troops at the Maasvlakte Oil and Gas terminal in the port of Rotterdam to protect it from destruction by enemy special forces. Romeo
and his team secure a rendezvous with the nuclear submersible USS District of Columbia who offer Romeo's team passage to the US West Coast. Due
to ongoing naval blockade attempts by invading forces, the District of Columbia surfaces off the coast of Ventura, California, and the squad are able
to make contact with a US army infantry detachment stationed inside the city.
The troops are en route to join a detachment of Marines at the Port of Los Angeles in Long Beach, and headed to clear the towns along the Ventura
Freeway between Oxnard and Burbank. Romeo's squad agree to join them.
The troops reach the city of Los Angeles from the northwest and enter the city through North Hollywood.
On their way to Long Beach they help push North Korean invading forces out of North Hollywood (Down Rodeo) and the South of Beverly Hills
towards the coast.
The troops eventually reach the Port of Los Angeles, and find it securely occupied by a platoon of US Marines. According to the platoon CO, forward
observers report that the invading DPRK forces are preparing to seize the Long Beach Airport.
The squad and the rest of the Soldiers and Marines determine to stop them and set out for Signal Hill to intercept the enemy force.
In the ensuing Battle of Signal Hill, the player manages to help the defending forces hold the airport and push the attackers back towards the ocean.
Shortly thereafter the defenders receive information about reinforcements being en route to their position.
The group leave a small contingent behind on Signal Hill, and the rest of them decide to continue to push south and out of the city towards San Diego
and the US-Mexico border.
Romeo's team take point in the front of the convoy with Romeo manning the mounted M2 helping engage scattered invading troops along the
highway.
The convoy makes it safely to the LA city limits only to receive a distress signal from the Navy bad at Coronado, about an incoming large amphibious
attack force, requesting the assistance of all nearby US forces. After their final leg of the journey, the troops reach the coast in time to join the battle
of Coronado Island in San Diego, California.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
(Describe final battle mission)
//.Character note: Romero
His full name is: Ramon Fulgencio Medrano Álvarez
Campaign 2:
Do Right, Fear None
SFC Ferris "Ducky" Ryan
AEGIS Squad - NATO Allied Rapid Reaction Command Europe
In the mission Wirecutter, AEGIS join a team of elite Danish frogmen (team codename Nereid Black) on a nighttime mission to intercept the
Panamanian-registered container ship Sea Lion 7 that they suspect to be a Russian Shadow Fleet vessel running a covert undersea sabotage
operation with the goal of disrupting deep sea internet and communications cable infrastructure in the North Sea.
AEGIS and Nereid execute an amphibious covert infiltration with Nereid infiltrating the Sea Lion from the surface of the sea from a combat craft, and
AEGIS being deployed by helicopter flown by PEGASUS squad onto the ship’s deck via fast roping.
Nereid move to secure the ship's hold while AEGIS head for the ship’s superstructure and the bridge.
The teams encounter unusual resistance from the ship’s crew who are mostly Russian.
After securing the superstructure and several unarmed crewmen that they encounter along the way (those who did not resist the team), and are
contacted by Grim (Nereid Squad Leader) to go into the hold
During a key moment in the mission Nereid discover a concealed compartment at the bottom of the ship’s hold where they happen to interrupt a team
of Vympel FSB Naval Specnaz combat divers (essentially a Russian counterpart to Nereid Black) in preparation for a dive to execute a sabotage
mission.
A firefight breaks out between the Vympel operators and Nereid Black, as AEGIS rush to descend into the hold to provide backup and to prevent a
second team of Specnaz operators also hiding aboard the ship from scuttling it and destroying the evidence.
In an intense close quarters battle in the hold of the ship, the team eventually eliminate all Specnaz aboard and secure the hold.
Grim calls in the status to JCOM (Joint Mission Command), but Lantern points out something’s not right, and suggests to Grim that he and Grim dive
to the undersea cable terminal to check for damage or persistent threats.
Grim agrees, and team Nereid take over the Russians’ diving station and prep for the dive.
JCOM tasks Ducky and his team to protect the upper deck of the ship, while Nereid investigate the underwater terminal, until PEGASUS and TRIDENT
can reach the ship to secure it and airlift AEGIS and Nereid off to base.
In this last part the team then must repel 2 more teams of Specnaz combat divers attempting to approach the vessel in surface attack craft in an
attempt to scuttle it before TRIDENT arrives.
Eventually TRIDENT SIX (DAOG Command ’s codename for the Danish patrol vessel HDMS Freja) rendezvous with the Sea Lion 7, after which AEGIS are
flown off the Freja by PEGASUS TWO (AEGIS Boeing CH-53 Sea Stallion), ending the mission.
Idea for Last Mission: Put in a reference to the Snake Island Heroes ("Russian warship, go fuck yourself!" Spoken by Ducky as he launches the missile
at the Severomorsk) during the oil terminal defense mission where you, playing as Ducky, must fight your way to a Russian-encircled NATO mobile
missile command post, and manually fire an NSM (AGM184A) anti-ship missile from a truck-mounted NMESIS-type launcher, severely damaging the
Russian Baltic Fleet destroyer Severomorsk that is laying down artillery fire on your position from off the coast, holding back reinforcements, and
forcing it to retreat. It is the final part of the final mission in the Game's second campaign in which you play as Ducky from AEGIS Squad fighting to
repel the invasion alongside a detachment of Dutch Royal Marines.
> Attention NATO forces! This is the destroyer Severomorsk of the (Northern) Baltic Fleet of the Navy of the Russian Federation.
You are illegally occupying the Maasvlakte terminal.
Cease fire immediately, and withdraw your forces to allow safe passage for our troops. Acknowledge!
> ...
> Attention NATO forces! If you do not acknowledge and comply, we are going to open fire on your position. You have exactly 1 minute to respond and
comply.
// Ducky arms the NMESIS battery, then reaches for the radio in the command post switches it to the Severomorsk's broadcast frequency, keys the
handset, and says:
> Hey, Russian warship! Go fuck yourself!
// ... and turns the key to initiate the NSM launch
// Missile away!
// On one of the external camera feeds screens Ducky suddenly notices a Specnaz RPG operator pop out of a fucking drain hole net to a pier head
100 yards out and take aim at the command center.
> Aw, fuck! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, …
// Ducky scrambles for the command center’s escape hatch as the command center is struck by the RPG, and knocked off its outriggers, tipping over
to the rear, sending Ducky flying against the escape hatch. Ducky manages to pop the escape hatch and emerge from the tipped-over command
center, only to see a plume of black smoke rise from the Severomorsk on the horizon.
The NSM is out of the tube in under 2 seconds, shoots up at a steep angle to about 200 ft, then abruptly levels off and bolts towards the distant ship.
But because the player watches the missile launch he sees a Specnaz operator pop around a barrier about 100 meters ahead of the command post
and fire an RPG at Ducky's position. Ducky attempts to flee but the command post is hit by the RPG and tips over, and he is thrown against the back
of the structure and is forced to pop the escape hatch, emerging largely unscathed, to the ground below. As he recovers, the camera pans out to the


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
sea and over the horizon as the Severomorsk is shown retreating after having sustained major damage to its hull from being struck by the NSM.
Dutch Marine radio chatter that Ducky hears on the air then confirms the ship’s retreat.
Ducky's teammates in AEGIS Squad:
SSGT Aki "Frost" Peltola - former Finnish Special Forces Arctic Warfare Division, now part of AEGIS Squad alongside Ducky. Frost is an elite sniper and
a proficient long-range patrolman and an arctic survival and warfare specialist.
Frost's character is a fictional nod to Siimo "White Death" Häyhä, the famous sniper of the Winter War of 1941. He talks like the mil YouTuber
FalconClaw, who is also Finnish. Wears a mask ísť of the time to hide facial scarring due to old combat injury.
Ştefan “Lupin” Dragavei - former Romanian Army special forces operator. Proficient in assault tactics at range and in close quarters.
LCPL Cassandra Stewart (Callsign: Switchblade)
Originally from Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, she grew up in relative poverty in one of m the suburbs of the city. She lost her mother to an
unexpected cardiac arrest, and her father Richie Stewart became increasingly dysfunctional and increasingly abusive until, one late night, after a long
day of drinking, he fell asleep while smoking on the couch in the living room of their home, causing a house fire. Cassie, 17 at the time was lucky
enough to escape. She confesses at one point in the story that on the night of the fire, she saw her father black-out drunk on the living room couch
among the growing blaze, but feeling bitter and vengeful over the years of abuse she had suffered at his hands, she decided to walk away. After that,
she spent a rough couple months doing mostly petty crime on the streets of Melbourne before deciding to enlist just one week after her eighteenth
birthday.
Campaign 3:
Riptide Red
CPT Trevor "Spook" Gartner
Victor Two Bravo "The Tourists" - CIA Directorate of Operations, Ground Branch
In the Prologue, the Tourists (mission team callsign: Noble; Spook, Tripper, and Smoke; Gartner, Bartlett, and Oakenfold) dispatched by Senior Case
Officer Matthew Mullen (mission callsign: Regent), arrive undercover (as a team of Canadian overland travelers and amateur filmmakers, probably
using film equipment transport cases to take some of the mission gear with them) at Schipol International Airport in Amsterdam. The team pick up a
rental car, Tripper sweeps it for bugs, and they drive to a warehouse near the city's Eastern Docklands area where they are introduced to CIA case
officer Cameron Steele (mission callsign: Emperor) from the Agency's Regional HQ in Frankfurt, Germany. Steele reveals to be working on something
codenamed PANDORA, and is currently working on tracking and investigating a suspicious shipment of restricted networking and communications
technology from Turkmenistan, which is reportedly headed for Atlanta, Georgia, United States. This cargo is currently in transit by train to Vienna,
Austria. Steele then gives the team access to their weapons and the rest of their mission equipment, as well as a mobile operations command vehicle
disguised as an overland RV truck and fitted with the Agency's latest Command and Control technology "courtesy of the friendly guys and gals at the
Frankfurt Logistics Office".
https://www.truckscout24.com/trucks/used/all/tatra
The team are then sent to Vienna to report to CIA case officer Kathy Hughes (mission call sign: Archduke) at the Vienna office located inside the US
embassy building, and receive a briefing on their next objective.

In the mission (mission-name), the team are dispatched to investigate a suspected safehouse used by a Lebanese terrorist cell located at an
apartment building in Vienna's 17th district (Hernals).
Spook and his team manage to enter the apartment undetected, finding it empty, only to be interrupted shortly thereafter by a young woman
returning to the apartment. They hide, but the woman, upon noticing that some of her possessions inside the apartment have been disturbed, she
panics and summons several men from downstairs who show up armed, and begin searching the apartment.
The team try to flee the apartment undetected through a balcony, but are eventually spotted at street level by a group of about seven men in a white
van parked at the apartment building's entrance, who give chase upon contact.
The team run into the courtyard of a nearby large townhouse, hoping to avoid the use of firearms, but are pursued by the men, leading Spook to split
from his two teammates, in the hope of diverting their pursuers.
After a short and intense parkour-style chase, leading the player across the rooftops of Hernals, onto a nearby passenger train platform, and into a
pedestrian underpass, where Tripper and Smoke are able to rendezvous with Spook, after having secured two motorcycles as the team's means of
exfiltration. Spook makes an escape on the backseat of Tripper's motorbike, only for the group to be chased but the van they saw earlier when they
reach the city beltway. A high-speed chase ensure along the beltway, as the men inside the van are revealed to be armed and open fire at the team.
The player, playing as Spook uses a GP SP10A3 STRIBOG PDW (interestingly, the only time you get to use the weapon in any of the game’s story
campaigns, but you can not keep it after the mission) to return fire at the van before the pursuers can hit any of his team, eventually killing the van
driver, and causing the van to careen out of its lane, collide with a concrete roadwork barrier, and explode.
The team finally leave the beltway and reach the Port of Vienna where they ditch the bikes inside a parking garage and are met by two Agency


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
personnel (Junior Case Officers Jerry Hobbes and Daryl O'Brien) posing as city utility company employees, and taken to report back to Hughes at the
Embassy.
At the debrief, Smoke hands in a tablet that the team had recovered from the apartment, and Hughes instructs the team to bring the tablet over to
the Agency tech team at the Frankfurt office, for them to try and extract any useful Intel out of it.
A news broadcast in the background reveals that the fourth-floor safehouse at the Hernals address that the team had previously visited had been
destroyed in a fire allegedly caused by an electrical fault in the apartment's breaker box.
Intel from the laptop contains the mention of Betta Logistics Group GmbH., a sensitive and hazardous cargo logistics company headquartered near
the Frankfurt International Airport, and points to a man named Simenon Christophe Navarre, a French-Canadian-German national and owner of the
company, as the contact for one of the men using the Vienna safehouse where the tablet was recovered. The Intel also seems to mention Karyna
Budanova, Navarre's life partner, and an executive assistant at GenCorp, an international data management company, but provides no further
information on her involvement with the group from Vienna
In the next mission titled Above My Pay Grade set in the outskirts of Frankfurt at nighttime, the team covertly enter Navarre's house and search for
Intel about the shipment. They manage to discover several pieces of paperwork, but nothing enough to go on in their investigation.
Pressed for time, the team decide to locate Navarre inside the house, and move to search the upper floor of the house.
The team eventually confront Navarre in his office. He loses his composure at first, but calms down a moment later, and agrees to give the Player
access to his laptop containing shipping manifests and transaction records.
The Player discovers that the shipment is being prepared for shipping at warehouse 46 in the cargo sector of the Frankfurt airport.
(Information later obtainable by searching Navarre's laptop reveals that the shipment contract is made out in the name of an Israeli defense-orientred
software company called Bastion Infotech, which is ultimately revealed to be a front for a Mossad and CIA black op run as part of the PANDORA plan.
The shipment that the team are tracking down of one of several shipments made through contractors and shell companies from various eastern
counties (but always labeled as coming from a legitimate looking legal entity in an allied European country) into major cities in the United States)
The player can choose to get Navarre and Budanova new identities and a fresh start somewhere far away by calling in a favor with his trusted
contacts back at Langley, at the end of the Navarre House infiltration mission. If the player chooses to help Navarre, Navarre will later in the game call
the player to thank him for what they have done, and to bid them goodbye, as they will no longer be allowed to make contact thereafter.
The team take Navarre's keys, ID, and company van and head to the airport warehouse.
The team arrive at the airport to find the warehouse swarming with Atlas personnel. They pull up to the warehouse side entrance in the Betta Logistics
van and covertly dispatch the three Atlas sentries guarding the door.
They then proceed to clear and secure the warehouse from remaining Atlas personnel, only to find that the shipment had been moved before even
they got there. Tripper manages to extract a hard drive from a destroyed laptop hoping to mine it for Intel later. The team use explosives that smoke is
able to recover from an Atlas armored van on site to destroy the warehouses. It is shown at a later point in the story that in the media, the explosion is
attributed to negligent handling of hazardous substances by the logistics company employees. The news reports never mention any of the entities
involved with the shipment, the presence and involvement of Atlas personnel, or the nature of the shipment previously held at the site.
Upon analyzing the data from the hard drive, Tripper finds mentions of tetherbreak and is able to partially decrypt fragments of messages sent and
received on the laptop proper to its destruction that contain mentions of PANDORA and TETHERBREAK. One message fragment appears to indicate
that the shipping time of the shipment had unexpectedly been expedited following a warning about a possible raid. The decrypted data does not
reveal who the sender of the messages is.
This makes Spook and his men suspect that someone must have warned the Bastion personnel on site about the team's impending arrival in order to
buy them time to covertly divert the shipment to another flight.
Though most of the files associated with PANDORA are corrupted, Tripper manages to recover a partial list of sets of cryptic alphanumeric identifiers
paired with dates and times and what appears to be flight codes that turn out to be untraceable based on accessible Agency records.
Smoke has a hunch that the list might be a shipping schedule of some sort, so Spook decides to call In a favor with a contact at AEGIS, a former
German MAD (military counter-intelligence) officer Karl Alexander “Jaeger” Stanzler, who now works in the PYTHIA counterintelligence detachment
under the DAOG Command , who helps the team match the numbers and dates to a cluster of privately chartered flights that fit the same pattern and
direction as the now missing shipment.
The flight charter contracts are all made out in the names of different US defense supply and security infrastructure contractor companies.
Upon investigating available information about the companies in Agency records, the shipments were declared as containing restricted computer
hardware parts for domestic drone countermeasure applications. The paperwork on file appears to be in order, all the way to the strictest regulatory
requirements.
//At this point, the team should first trace the package back to GenCorp, which leads them to a GENCorp regional head office in Abu Dhabi, UAE.
// The team then travel to Abu Dhabi to raise the GENCorp data center to get the full shipping record of the shipment. This is when the mission
Infrastructure Day takes place. The GENCorp head of Data Security Leandro Blommaert is an optional target during this mission.
// The data they obtain indicates that the shipment was commissioned by a representative of Agarwal Berkhan, an Indonesian-Emirati billionaire
philanthropist and majority GENCorp shareholder.
// The Agency handlers dispatch Victor Two Bravo to Medan City, Indonesia as part of operation DRAGONSLAYER with orders to find and apprehend
Berkhan. This is when the mission Man From Medan takes place.
After the team finish the job at the Medan compound, having failed to capture Berkhan, Spook gets a secure call from Director of Operations at
Langley Robert Macmillan, informing the team that their handler Regent (Mullen) has been “urgently reassigned” to work on a different case, and that
Victor Two Bravo are to report directly to Macmillan (mission callsign: Bishop), effective immediately.
Bishop subsequently assigns the team to a new CIA-NSA joint operation codenamed WHITEOUT, securely uploads new intel for the team that traces
the missing shipment to Miami, FL, and orders the team to travel to Florida and meet with two NSA contacts who are supposed to give them further
information about the case.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
The team report mission updates back to Emperor at the Frankfurt Field Office, and arrange for a flight back to the US.
They take flight out of Frankfurt to Orlando, FL, and drive to a safehouse in Doral. The Intel they received from Bishop provides additional data on the
shipment's whereabouts. The team head to rendezvous with their contacts, NSA analysts Keith Simmons and Jessica Lynch who can provide them
with the latest operstional updates on the investigation during a meeting at a diner in the nearby town of Medley, FL,
Simmons and Lynch reveal to Spook and his men that they had tracked a suspicious shipment of restricted components from Miami-Dade airport to a
far-right accelerationist domestic terrorist group known as the Kali Yuga Surf Club (based on and visually resembling the real-life white supremacist
Republic of Florida Militia) from Tallahassee, FL, who, only a few hours ago, seem to have moved several large containers of the types used to
transport electronic and communications equipment into the abandoned Desautels Resort Hotel in Miami Beach.
The team drive to Miami Beach to reconnoiter the hotel building, and find that it had been occupied by members of the Los Sites cartel (CLSO).
There appears to be no sign of KYSC at first, but the team surmise that they might be hiding out inside the building. Smoke deploys a thermal drone to
check for heat signatures and identities the possible targets on one of the upper floors of the hotel. The hotel is also overrun with Los Sietes. Tripper
remarks that it is unusual to see a band of wingnut doomsday cultists get a small army of cartel enforcers to run security for them.
//Introduce far-right radical nihilist accelerationist US domestic terrorist group, the Kali Yuga Surf Club, used as a front for the Miami PANDORA attack.
This was a deliberate red herring orchestrated by Goldberg and Macmillan to lead Victor Two Bravo into a trap. The perpetrators of the attack are
themselves the brainwashed victims of an NSA psyop that had been held and conditioned, and ultimately given CogniConnect brain implants at the
Montoya Farm. They are the other group of enemies besides the Los Sietes Cartel (El Cartel de Los Sietes se Oaxaca, CLSO, from Oaxaca, Mexico)
that the player gets to fight at the Desautels Resort Hotel in Pandora’s Box.
// At the end of Pandora's box, upon finally locating and defeating all 5 of the KYSC members and destroying the Pandora device, apparently stopping
the attack, the Player notices that the five dead KYSC members all bear identical tattoos of the same symbol that Agency records reveal to be an old
symbol dating back to the times of MKULTRA, and in the past associated with Montoya Farm, owned by billionaire tycoon Brodie van Horne, a close
business associate of Goldberg's, prompting the team to investigate Montoya Farm in the next mission titled Burning Daylight.
// Once the team stop the KYSC and inactivate the PANDORA device they are met with further Cartel resistance while trying to leave the hotel.
The team are attacked by a KYSC sniper and machine Gunner aboard a light helicopter that hovers outside around the upper floors of the hotel
building. The sniper and machine gunner fire at the team when they are out of cover and in line of sight of the enemy. At the same time the player
must deal with several squads of cartel enforcers ascending to their position from the fire escapes and through the elevator lobby.
The player must take out the helicopter, causing it to crash into the hotel building.
When the helicopter is destroyed, the team are free to proceed using the hole created by the chopper crash to bypass a locked fire escape door
leading to the floor below.
Upon reaching the mezzanine lobby, the team are ambushed by a group of 5 elite cartel sicarios. After fatally wounding the last of them, the team
move in on his position only to discover that the last sicario managed to light the fuse to a 2-ton fertilizer bomb that the sicarios have planted it the
exit doorway of the mezzanine’s elevator lobby leading to the main hotel entrance and reception lobby, leaving the team only seconds to escape
before the detonation inevitably levels the hotel.
The team rush to pry open a nearby elevator door and use the elevator cable to slide down to the bottom of the shaft and into the hotel’s
underground parking garage to escape the blast.
The bomb detonates just as the team are reaching the bottom floor of the parking garage, sending the elevator car plummeting after the Player. The
car hits some debris on the way down, becomes wedged inside the shaft, and grinds to a stop before it reaches the bottom of the shaft, saving the
Player from being crushed on impact, and giving them a chance to briefly recover after their somewhat rough landing and pull themselves out of the
shaft and into the floor of the bottom tier of the hotel parking garage.
The team must then fight approximately 15 to 21 cartel enforcers on the way up through three levels of the parking garage before finally reaching an
exit to street level, and exiting about 300ft from the now mostly leveled hotel building, just as first responder vehicles begin to arrive into the scene of
the explosion. The team then quickly slip off to a nearby alleyway and out of sight of any onlookers, ending the mission.
// This is not supposed to be revealed until the finale.the player is led to believe that they had stopped PANDORA in Miami, but Miami turns out to be
just one of many similar operations across several US cities. The truth is revealed to the player by Goldberg, delivering the “It's way bigger than you
think” plot twist moment of this campaign's story.
Additional data recovered by Tripper indicates that the shipment that the team were after was one of many similar shipments delivered or scheduled
to be delivered to different destinations across the continental United States over the past several weeks.
//Burning Daylight - Set during the team’s covert night-time infiltration of the Montoya Farm compound located near San Rafael, New Mexico.
Unable to secure more robust cover for the mission due to suspicions of their mission handlers being compromised, Spook’s team decide to stake out
the operation of the New Mexico white supremacist biker gang leader and industrial-scale meth producer “Uncle” Jack Pruitt, and set an ambush on
three of his men as they are on the way to do “contactor work” at the Montoya Farm, and are able to acquire their U-HAUL truck that they use to
infiltrate the compound. While the truck and disguises do get them safely past the gate and inside the compound, senior security personnel or the
team's high-profile targets are not likely to be fooled by them. As part of the mission, Spook uses a directional microphone given to him by Tripper to
covertly follow Strockbridge around the mansion, eavesdropping on her phone conversations. The conversation reveals many disturbing clues that
the team are yet unable to put in context, but will learn about in detail later in the mission. The team use the gathered intel to identify the location of
the security room within the mansion, as the plans that they were able to pull from Agency sources do not seem to contain accurate enough layout
plans of the mansion to provide enough for the team to go on.
At some point during the conversation, they learn about the concealed security room entrance on the second-floor of the mansion. Spook is then
sent to acquire a keycard from behind the cloak room desk in the Ballroom Annex of the mansion, which is hosting a large gala event at the time with
many in attendance. This provides unique stealth opportunities for the player, as regular guests are unlikely to alert anyone of your presence when
they see you (unless they see you act suspiciously). The security and facility staff, as well as the high-profile targets like Stockbridge will absolutely
raise an alarm if they see you acting suspicious or encounter the player up close or in areas of the property that are clearly labeled as off-limits to the
player. You can use this to your advantage as you make the way to the desk and pick up the keycard.
Given the stakes of the mission being caught by security or being spotted by Stockbridge fails the mission (Given that the player cannot literally kill
the entire population of the compound to get away, because it would destroy the entire operation, making it impossible to continue the rest of the
storyline The team would have been taken out immediately by Law Enforcement forces upon trying to leave the compound. Killing Stockbridge at this
point in the story likewise fails the mission, because the story requires Stockbridge to survive till the end of Spook’s final story mission).
The team subsequently infiltrate the mansion’s security room and access the CCTV system used to monitor the compound.
The team discover camera feeds showing vast underground spaces whose existence is completely unknown to them, and according to available
Agency records, it is completely unknown to the authorities and to the public as well. Not even the FBI has documented proof of their existence. The
Agency has, but the knowledge and documentation about it have been unknown to a select few, but not to Spook or any of his trusted contacts. The
facility has existed for decades, since the times of Goldberg's predecessor.
(The secrecy around KINGMAKER is warranted, considering that it is the world's most powerful kompromat and blackmail resource to ever exist, and
is practically impossible to completely control, much less by any single country's government or intelligence agency. It was seen as in the utmost


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
interest of multiple intelligence agencies from countries all over the geopolitical spectrum, as well as virtually all of the world's rich and powerful elites
that this global human trafficking operation be allowed to continue without interference. The person who got to be KINGMAKER changed from time
to time, but the role stayed).
Other than that, only the NSA personnel and others involved in the human trafficking ring have some knowledge of their existence.
They proceed to gain access to the tunnels by locating a concealed hatch in the off-limits part of the building’s basement near the pool machinery
room.
The team must move quietly avoiding detection inside the tunnels. The Player must eliminate enemies stealthily and conceal the bodies to hide them
from being discovered by the remaining enemies.
The player can reach a control room where they can sabotage the CCTV camera feed, effectively disabling the security cameras inside the
underground tunnels. The team continue to explore the tunnels, discovering a makeshift prison, an inpatient medical facility with its own operating
theater, numerous dormitories and rooms apparently furnished for long-term living, an underground plaza with a simulated sky ceiling and lighting
that mimics natural light, and several large rooms containing rather creepy-looking “movie sets” contaminated with various bodily fluids and
containing various weapons, tools, equipment and household items, suggesting their use for production of snuff films or other kinds of illegal abuse
material. The team also notice the same symbols that the KYSC had tattooed adorning the walls in parts of the underground complex.
The team push deeper into the tunnels, eventually reaching a server room, where Tripper is able to place a hardware implant into the compound’s
networking system for persistent access to the compound's IT infrastructure, and extract a copy of a large portion of encrypted archived data from
the compound's data storage infrastructure.
The team continue to push further into the underground complex, eventually reaching an apparent dead end in a laundry room, but discover a narrow
vertical shaft with a ladder, accessible through a hidden door inside a small cubby behind a large filing cabinet, and leading to the surface, that they
are able to use to exfiltrate from the compound.
Upon the team's return to the safehouse, Tripper manages to decrypt the extracted data revealing a massive tranche of classified information,
including hundreds of suppressed Agency reports documenting the architecture of the human trafficking-kompromat-black-market-dark-money
scheme, happening with the full knowledge and active participation of not only multiple domestic federal intelligence and security agencies, but also
the Russia FSB, the Mossad, the IRGC, the Chinese Ministry of State Security, North Korean State Intelligence, pretty much the entire NATO security
apparatus, and several intelligence actors from either nojn-state entities or from geopolitically non-aligned states.
//Tripper's quote: “Holy mother of God! Spook, you gotta take a look at this. Looks like just about everybody and their mother-in-law is on this
motherfucker’s payroll.”
// They find records of billions of dollars in FinBud and cryptocurrency transactions linking the shady businessman owner of the Desautels Resort
Hotel, the KYSC and the Los Sietes to entities that connect all the way back to KINGMAKER and Goldberg. KINGMAKER is also the only codename
used to refer to this operation, as the decrypted classified documents seem to indicate.
// The decrypted files also contain mentions of a buried CIA intelligence analyst report on something codenamed Riptide Red, The document
containing the report itself appears to have been purged.
// The decrypted data also contains a partial file on PANDORA, though the majority of the data seems to have been purged from it.
// The decrypted information also appears to link the shipment flight data and recipient entities, along with numerous state and local law enforcement
across the country to an NSA operation codenamed DARMA whose task it was to conceal evidence of activities by various groups within the global
intelligence community affiliated with Goldberg and Barry Crodyn and suppress inquiry and reporting about them)
//In light of the new discovery, the team make a plan to go after Goldberg to get answers, and still under the impression that they had stopped the
only PANDORA attack, they determine to take him into a clandestine prison (a CIA black site) to stop him from attempting another attack or
coordinating with his co-conspirators.
// This is when the short mission Come Fly With Me, (In which the team steal a float plane on the island of St Croix to get to East McFarlane Island)
followed by the campaign finale mission Sins of Our Fathers.
//In come fly with me, you and the team find themselves near the town of Anguilla on the island of St. Croix in the US Virgin Islands, about 40 miles
south of East McFarlane Island, waiting for nighttime and the right weather conditions. You start at daytime inside a safehouse apartment near the
shore. You can read the missing dossier and change your equipment to prepare for the mission.
Leaving the apartment triggers the next part of the mission wherein you move to set up near the small coastal fishing company compound inside of
which the float plane is located. Upon reaching the place the team settle in to wait till nightfall.
At night the weather gets worse, which the team expect to use to their advantage when approaching the island.
The compound is occupied by a small 7-man security detail and some unarmed fishermen. You must eliminate the security personnel before they can
radio for reinforcements, and reach the foreman's office where they breach the office door, eliminate the remaining 3 security guards and hold an
unarmed foreman at gunpoint to get him to refuel the Found BFA-2 floatplane out on the compound’s pier before Smoke can fly the team to East
McFarlane Island.
The team approach the island flying in dark and coasting with the plane’s engine off. Smoke manages to land the plane near a small cove with a small
semi-secluded beach, where the Player begins the mission. As their first objective the team head toward the Grand Villa, in the residential sector on
the other side of the island.
// War Wolves - a team of three former Tier 1 special forces operators that Stockbridge dispatches to go after and take out Victor Two Bravo after she
learns of their presence on the island.
They wear solid dark grey-colored tactical gear and don signature kevlar wolf face masks. The Player speculates that they might be US private military
contractors, or even compromised fellow CIA Ground Branch operators, but because they appear to have rigged CogniConnect neural implants that
detonate upon their death, destroying any identifiable facial features, the Player never gets a chance to unmask and identify them. They use callsigns
Crimson One, Crimson Two, and Crimson Three.
The Player must defeat them before they can reach the helipad to confront Stockbridge and Goldberg.
//Move this to first campaign:
(Features the famous 4th mission Down Rodeo, where you have to fight your way through parts of Hollywood and DTLA in the aftermath of a
mass-scale cyber attack that hijacked autonomous air and ground drones across large urban centers in the US, and used them to target strategic
military assets across the US.)
// Change setting: Pandora's Box is set at the Desautels Resort Hotel in Miami Beach, FL.
Also, Pandora's Box, the ?th mission of this campaign features the famous opening sequence in which Bartlett reverses a large SUV (like a Toyota


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
Tacoma) into a DTLA alleyway during nighttime raid on a hotel building to foil a planned cyber attack by an unknown enemy actor, while Spook and
Smoke open the rear hatch and fire at the sentries down the alley, killing both of them before disembarking and entering the hotel building, which had
been seized by a street gang, through the back entrance, undetected.
According to the campaign's story, the tourists fail to stop the plot, setting in motion the events of the rest of the Riptide Red storyline.
The campaign's final mission, _Battle of Coronado_ sees Romeo's Fire Team Delta fighting alongside detachments US Army and US Marines in
repelling a massive North Korean, Russian, and Iranian joint amphibious assault against the North Island Naval Air Station in Coronado Island in San
Diego, California, to protect the stationed Pacific Navy Carrier Strike Group vessels.
PANDORA is a suppressed (that is, most records of it in internal registries and knowledge cases game been purged, and most of the hard copies
destroyed and the remainder archived, put In a cryptically labeled box, sealed with tape, and deposited in a restricted section of deep storage) CIA
operational plan to weaponize TETHERBREAK on US soil.
Other story-adjacent lore:
One of Spook's campaign missions is called Burning Daylight.
Should be the one where they infiltrate Montoya farm.
Directorate of Operations missions connected to and mentioned in the story:
KINGMAKER - Plan devised by Spook, Tripper and Smoke to go after Goldberg at his private island after finding out that Goldberg was the one who
sold out Spook’s team to Atlas (through a compromised Director Macmillan) prompting them to move the shipment from Warehouse 46 early and
destroy most of the evidence. Ends with Spook and his team being declared rogue by director Macmillan.
KINGMAKER is the CIA internal codename for Goldberg. The codename used for Stockbridge is CHAPERONE.
(Sins of Our Fathers (KINGMAKER) ends just as the attack on the US West Coast happens. Though at the end of Pandora's Box the team manage to
prevent the activation of one of the PANDORA devices in the abandoned Desautels Resort Hotel in Miami Beach, FL (based on the real-life Deauville
Beach Resort at 6701 Collins Ave, Miami Beach, FL 33141 demolished in 2022)) earlier in the story, which the media present as the government
authorities having successfully foiled a one-off lone-wolf terror attack attempt, Goldberg reveals to the player during the campaign finale that they
only managed to uncover and stop one of many operational cells involved in PANDORA.
Goldberg and Macmillan took this opportunity to deceive the Tourists into going after Berkhan (who had played a major role in making PANDORA
possible), thinking they would kill him as he tried to resist capture, ensuring that the true origin, purpose, and full extent stays hidden from the public.
Compromised DHS and NSA personnel launched NSA operation SPRINGBLOAT to suppress any domestic communications about and inquiries into
the attack.
It is also revealed that the Miami mission was a set-up by Macmillan to get Spook and his men killed by Cartel members who had taken over the hotel.
The team's ability to survive and escape the hotel after it is rushed by the Cartel members after the team deactivate the PANDORA device
complicated Macmillan's plan, allowing them to get ahead and pursue the lead they found in the hotel that ultimately led them to learn about Brodie
Van Horne, the Montoya Farm conspiracy, the Shadow Underground (one of the ways some people refer to the organization which has no official
name, other names include The Forever Pact, the Eternal Society, the Eclipse Society, The Founders, The Delta Project, or The Illuminati) trafficking
ring, and finally about Riptide Red and the conspiracy at the very highest echelons of the US federal Government involving TETHERBREAK and
PANDORA.
TETHERBREAK - A top secret CIA operations program that aimed to develop a foreign asset to gain unauthorized access to US strategic military
command & control infrastructure and take control of domestic and allied-territory autonomous multi-domain weapons systems and turn them
against the United States. Because if we find a way to do it ourselves first then the enemy cannot surprise us by beating us to the punch.
DRAGONSLAYER - In the mission titled Man from Medan, the Tourists (mission callsign Black Knight) are covertly dispatched to Medan City, Indonesia
to capture Agarwal Berkhan (codenamed Baloo), an Indonesian billionaire and a CIA and suspected foreign intelligence asset connected to CIA
financing multiple South Asian warlords whom they planned to develop as part of the TETHERBREAK program.
The team eventually catch up to Berkhan in his Medan residence in his compound in Cemara Asri, prompting the warlord to send his personal guard
garrisoned at his compound, to stop them. The team fight their way through Berkhan's men through the compound and up to his villa, eventually
clearing it of remaining guards and defeating Berkhan's personal bodyguards guarding the door to his office. Upon forcing an entry into the office
and finding him surrendering,the Player prepares to apprehend Berkhan, only for him to make one last desperate getaway attempt by having his men
airlift him via helicopter from the second-floor terrace of his mansion (As the team prepare to bag Berkhan, they are attacked by machine gun fire
from a door gun of a Mi-8 "Hip-E" helicopter as Berkhan's evac arrives. In a moment of surprise, Berkhan manages to break the player's grip, and
scramble to his feet. Though ultimately unable to stop Berkhan, the Player manages to rip his Security ID card off the lanyard in his belt during the
Player's attempt to hold him back from fleeing. The team tip over and dive behind heavy office equipment and furniture pieces to take cover from the
strafing fire, while Berkhan flees the office to the terrace through a side door, triggering the panic code from the other side and locking down all exits
from the office by electronically locking out all doors, and dropping down emergency metal shutters in front of all windows around the office. With
Berkhan's escape route now closed behind him, and effectively locked in with no apparent way out, the team hear the chopper circle around the
corner of the mansion's roof, presumably to approach the terrace and get Berkhan on board. The Player (Spook) realizes that he still has Berkhan’s
Security ID badge, and uses it to unlock a security paneI on the wall next to Berkhan's desk, lifting the lockdown. The team rush to the terrace, only to
see the chopper lift off with Berkhan on board. At first, Berkhan appears to be able to make an escape, leading the team to huddle and come up with
a damage control strategy, The player reports that the helicopter is headed north, upon which Black King (that's the mission callsign for Command)
advises that Berkhan owns a luxury super yacht, the Gerhana (the name means ‘Eclipse” in Indonesian), and that she is currently docked at the Port of


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
Belawan, about 20 klicks to the north of the team's position. About 30 seconds in, Berkhan's helicopter is unexpectedly hit by a "malfunctioning" (not
really malfunctioning, more like deliberately sabotaged using TETHERBREAK technology, but the characters don't know about that, yet) Indonesian
Skynex Remote Air Defense System and blown out of the sky, killing everyone on board including Berkhan. The attack and Berkhan's death is officially
blamed on an Indonesian Islamic terrorist group, but the team suspect that someone sabotaged the SAM system to kill, and therefore, silence
Berkhan.
In the mission titled Infrastructure Day set before the attack on the compound in Medan, the Tourists are sent to infiltrate a Gencorp corporate office
located inside a skyscraper in Abu Dhabi, UAE, to find Intel leading them to Baloo's current location in Medan, eventually tracking their target to the
Lestari House, a vast compound surrounding a luxury villa located on the outskirts of Medan City. (This is the mission where you rappel down the side
of a skyscraper to reach the data center).
(Controversial idea: collectible Intel containing fictionalized references to Edward Gregory Goldberg, an American billionaire venture capitalist, hedge
fund manager, sensitive information broker, multiple intelligence asset, and the co-operator, with English semi-aristocrat, modelling talent scout, and
media manager named Gillian Stockbridge being the other co-operator, of a global human trafficking ring. Berkha is known to be involved with
Goldberg to the player, but as the player investigates Berkhan's contacts further, the leads start pointing back to Spook's own higher-ups, and some
other big well-known foreign state intelligence actors with the name of former Israeli defense minister Eliezer Baruch Yadat, now working for Atlas
Solutions, a global PMC based in Singapore, (recently contracted to run operations security for several GenCorp sites worldwide) being mentioned as
a key connection to TETHERBREAK. This is where the player's efforts are abruptly stopped upon intervention from Directorate of Operations high
command, as portrayed in a flashback seen in the third-campaign story mission Above My Pay Grade)
Why did TETHERBREAK even exist? A glorified penetration test. A compromised rouge clandestine cell?
Well, as one of the collectible pieces of Intel seems to indicate, it was to create a credible threat to covertly motivate and control US mechanisms of
power for purposes of ongoing public civil liberties suppression, and maintaining power. In the words of one of the case officers involved, the
Pentagon thought they were safe with their swarms of ever-vigilant autonomous murder bots. Too safe... TETHERBREAK was meant to keep their egos
in check, so they avoid becoming reckless and breaking the established order, thus threatening the actual (shadow) power structure.
The powerful elite realized that autonomous weapons technology does not put an end to the global power struggle, and having learned from
seemingly superior US technology being bested by comparatively low-tech hacks in the past, they now decided to beat their competition to the
punch by engineering the means of compromising the systems themselves. The idea was to control the black market of exploits aimed against the
technology, to discover and patch any existing vulnerabilities in systems that are already in operation, and last but not least, ensuring that the US
Government won't be able to use the same autonomous weapons systems against the very global elites that the shadow underground represents.
They put themselves in control of the systems, their means of subversion, who gets to access either, and then made themselves immune to the
application of the very same systems against themselves. It was never meant to be used In a terrorist attack, it was an insurance policy, but then
Crodyn’s criminal underworld ties were exposed, then his links to foreign intelligence, then his personal relationship and history of dealings with
Goldberg. Which threatened to expose the whole shadow structure.
That's when the powerful finally caved and went for the nuclear option: stage a false flag attack, topple your own government to stay out of prison,
then start a bunch of wars all over the world, plunge the country into chaos, and then cover your tracks, and keep all the power.
The TETHERBREAK conspiracy seems to be tied all the way up to the sitting US President Barry James Crodyn (pronounced Crow-den, per famous
campaign slogans like "Nobody cares more than Crodyn!"). He also is the owner of the media holding Crodyn Entertainment, and the BJCWorld
modelling talent agency. Also has suspected ties to high-ranking Russian mafia boss Artem Stolyanov (Based on real-life Russian-American mob
patriarch Simeon Mogilevich). Despite being sitting President, most of the time Crodyn resides at the Maravilla estate in Palm Springs, California.
GENCorp (also spelled GenCorp) is the official short form of the name Global Executive Network Corporation - An American multi-national
surveillance data information service and defense Information and communication technology solutions provider with a global market and operations
range.
Indonesian-Emirati billionaire businessman Agarwal Berkhan owns approximately 25 per cent of GenCorp stock making him the largest stockholder at
the time. Barry James Crodyn and Paul Ruetger also own sizable amounts of the company's stock.
Palisade Systems is a US defense contractor with ties to Israel and a listed recipient of "drone countermeasure" technology from Bastion Infotech.
Owned by Paul Ruetger and headed by CEO David Bass. (Obviously Palantír, and CEO Alex Karp)
Alexia Crodyn - fictionalized Melania Trump, wife of Barry James Crodyn, born Alexia Khovranova in an unspecified Eastern European country
Paul Ruetger (‘rut-ger) - fictionalized Peter Thiel - German-born American venture capitalist and owner of Palisade Systems
Lloyd Aymes - fictionalized Elon Musk The proprietor of Galvani Automotive, StarLift Logistics, SkyConnect Wireless Data Service, LQAI (an artificial
intelligence company), CogniConnect Human-Machine Interface Technologies, and, as of relatively recently, the LQ social media platform (previously
operated under the name Feedz, but acquired by Aymes and renamed to LQ, reportedly as a result of Aymes’s obsession with the letter Q),


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
Ruetger and Aymes had previously worked together at a startup called FinBud, which later came to dominate the online payment and electronic fraud
prevention industry. They did not part on good terms ,and remain vocally critical of each other’s practices, at least in the public eye.
David Bass - CEO of Palisade Systems, fictionalized Alex Karp
Nestor Brandtner - deceased owner of Blaine Media, whose portfolio was passed onto Clegg. Based on the real-life Andrew Breitbart
Roger E. Clegg - former US Navy officer turned US far right alternative media holding group proprietor, political strategist, and the quintessential
American anti-democracy thought leader. Represents a fictionalized version of Steve K. Bannon.
Former chief of staff in the first Crodyn Presidential Administration.
Owns Brandtner Media Group.
One of the active architects of the Riptide Red, DARMA and SPRINGBOAT plots. Has extensive ties to Goldberg and has extensive knowledge of the
existence of KINGMAKER, including the mind control programme being carried out on Montoya Farm. Clegg has probably directly participated in
brainwashing the Montoya Farm Subjects.
Reginald Stockbridge - fictionalized Robert Maxwell, presumed dead, lost at sea, publishing tycoon, owner of Tilly Publishing Group
Montoya Estate - fictionalized Zorro Ranch, New Mexico, US - a n expansive heavily fortified compound surrounding a massive mansion with its own
private airstrip and helipad, fully off-grid infrastructure, and a vast underground complex used to conceal the national nerve centre of a global human
trafficking operation. Spook and team go there to covertly infiltrate a gala event to gather intel on Brodie van Horne’s connections to Reginald
Stockbridge and Eliezer Baruch Yadat, only to accidentally discover a massive underground prison and snuff production sites hidden in the
underground complex beneath the property.
Brodie van Horne- fictionalized Les Wexner - sponsored Goldberg's purchases of Montoya Estate.
Michael “Mickey” Baltano - fictionalized Alex Meruello - billionaire record label owner and music publisher, also owns the Desautels Resort Hotel in
Miami Beach, which is largely destroyed by the end of Pandora's Box.
Baltano is connected to Montoya Farm as a prospective buyer of the farm from van Horne, before the farm is officially purchased by another of
Goldberg's associates, clothing magnate (and sadistic piece of shit human being) Gary Albano.
Gary Albano - fictionalized Leon Black
Yitzhak Ben-Tov - fictional Israeli PM based on Benjamin Netanyahu
Walter Pedilla - fictionalized Samuel Alito, also serves as a SCOTUS Justice
Creighton Howard - fictionalized Clarence Thomas, also serves as a SCOTUS Justice.
East McFarlane Island - fictionalized Little St. James Island
Sergei Andreevich Baranov - the authoritarian president of the Russian Federation fictionalized Vladimír Putin.
Mikhail Konstantinovich Kostropov - Baranov’s chief of FSB, also the man who, a long time ago, as a middling operations office in the FSB signed off on
operational plan Parhelion-53, which was the codename for an unsuccessful FSB false-flag attack operation that went belly up, because frost
dispatched one of the enemy operators.
It is later revealed (in the second game) that Parhelion-53 was meant to create an international border incident between Finland and Russia, framed as
an illegal Finnish border patrol incursion into Russian territory that devolved into the Finnish using lethal force against Russian border security troops
on Russian territory.
The exercise that Frost’s unit was taking part in was to be used by Russians as a pretext in public discourse related to the incident, being cited by them
as a means of providing plausibly deniable cover for an illegal incursion of NATO-adjacent forces into Russian territory with intent to carry out
sabotage of Russian military infrastructure. In other words Russia tried to false flag Finnish troops on exercise in Finland, hoping to spin a média
narrative wherein the Finns attacked Russia first, and using the to attack the integrity of NATO, and torpedo public support for European military and
defense policies aimed at protecting western Europe from Russian aggression, framing them as warlike and escalatory.
Kostropov has since that time made it all the way to being Baranov's right-hand man, chief of the Kremlin's intelligence staff and head of the FSB.
Gennadiy Trofimovich Yefremov - fictionalized Yevgenii Prigozhin, a Russian criminal warlord and owner of the PMC group URSA Services, a
fictionalized version of the Wagner Group.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
Dzhokhar Tadaev - Chechen warlord and a “deputy administrator" of Baranov's for Chechnya, fictionalized Ramzan Kadyrov
Li Chengzhe (李承哲) - fictionalized leader of the People’s Republic of China, loosely inspired by real-world Chairman of the CCP Xi Jinping.
Hojjatollah Sayyid Mehrdad Esfandiari -Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran - a fictionalized version of the recently deceased Iranian
Ayatollah Ali Hosseini Khamenei
Kim Yon-Chol - fictional supreme leader of North Korea, born of the DPRK’s ruling Kim dynasty. Loosely based on Kim Jong-Un, but more serious
vibe and less of bumbling fatso manchild compared to his real-life inspiration.
Julien Dufresne - fictionalized Marc Dutroux
Geoffrey-Guy Moffat - fictionalized Jean-Luc Brunel, owner of the GeMo Look International, a high profile Parisian modeling agency.
Spook may be able to confront Goldberg in the very last (?) mission of his story campaign (Sins of Our Fathers), but the player never gets to
apprehend him. The team eventually reach East McFarlane, Goldberg's private West Indian island, discovering massive evidence of Goldberg's human
trafficking and illegal pornography ring, also evidence of cannibalism and ritual human sacrifice within the vast underground complex under the Island.
Spook’s team are determined not to let Goldberg leave the island, and confront him at the helipad of his island property, and find Gillian Stockbridge
preparing to airlift Goldberg off the island. The team appear to have cornered and finally come close to capturing Goldberg, only to be contacted last
minute by Major General Robert Macmillan, the CIA Director of Operations, who says that he had been informed “on good authority” that Victor Two
Bravo (the Tourists) have attempted to go rogue, and orders Spook and his men to stand down and give Goldberg safe passage off the island. This
might be the cliffhanger ending of the first game.
Direct Action Operations Group (DAOG) Command structure unit codenames:
Operations Command
ZEUS
Lieutenant General Callum Tremblay - French Canadian general and DAOG commander.
ARES
Colonel Mark Walker - Special Operations Commander in charge of AEGIS, CORYS, and SHIELD squads.
OLYMPUS
GANYMEDE
HADES
Special Operations
AEGIS
CORYS
SHIELD
Internal Affairs
HESTIA
Field Engineering
AMPHION
ZETHUS
Counter-intelligence & OPSEC
PYTHIA
Electronic Warfare
KYNEE
Psychological Operations
GORGON
Naval & Littoral
TRIDENT


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
CHARON
Logistics
AMALTHEA
HOPLON
Signals & Comms
HERMES
Airlift
ICARUS (Airbus A400M)

PEGASUS (Sikorsky CH-53 Sea Stallion)
Close Air Support (CAS)
PHAETON (JAS 39 Gripen)
KERAUNOS (Dassault Rafale B)
Air Defense
APOLLO
Artillery
ARTEMIS (Archer automatic howitzer)
TYPHON (Rocket artillery)
Armor
MINOTAUR (Leopard A3)
TITAN (AMX Leclerc)
COLOSSUS
CYCLOPS
Mechanized Infantry
HOPLITE
Other DAOG-affiliated allied characters outside of Ducky's Squad:
SSGT Katharine “Valkyrie” Becker - former KSK, joined CORYS squad (peers to their fellow AEGIS operators under the DAOG Command stricture)
after the dissolution of the KSK. Made it to the rank of Staff Sergeant through consistent excellence despite frequent shows of sexism and misogyny
from a loud minority of peers and superiors.
As team leader of CORYS Squad, Katrina's main assignment is protecting the human and physical assets of the AEGIS Command structure (that is,
protection of personnel, and immovable administrative and technical assets)
Though not directly part of Ducky's team, AEGIS and CORYS often operate together, sometimes as parallel teams in a larger squad.
Ilvars "Brick" Kozlovskis - former veteran Latvian SOF, close protection specialist. Part of CORYS squad with Valkyrie.
Riptide Red is the codename of the deep-state conspiracy that planned and executed the PANDORA attacks framed to look outwardly like an act of
war by the People's Republic of China (who, despite possessing intelligence knowledge of KINGMAKER’s existence, are not directly involved in or
seem to know about, Riptide Red). The US’s blaming China for the attack is a plausible pretext for domestic audiences to justify harsher domestic
security policies, suspension of the habeas corpus, and suspension of further us citizens constitutional rights, and at the same time, to destabilize
both the US domestic and the global geopolitical situation and enable the group to carry out an effective coup of the United States, installing Barry
James Crodyn as the 48th president of the US for his unconstitutional 3rd term in office, putting him above accountability for his recently surfaced
criminal history with grievous crimes effectively amounting to treason.
This however sets in motion a chain of events enabling several hostile powers to take advantage of the temporary blackout of US cyber defense and
EW countermeasures to launch a simultaneous amphibious invasion of the US West Coast, for Russia to open a Baltic front in Western Europe, and for
China, who are quick to exploit US weakness, and take this opportunity, to invade and annex the Republic of China in Taiwan.
It is implied that Goldberg may have sold the information about Riptide Red to multiple governments, enabling them to plan out a coordinated
invasion. For those behind Riptide Red, plunging the world into World War Three only served to enhance their odds of escaping accountability, and
realizing their plan to use their wealth to insulate themselves from the consequences of the events that they had set in motion.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
The Nereid Black Operator characters’ faces are modeled after the slightly age-regressed likenesses of Scandinavian actors Viggo Mortensen (Grim),
Mads Mikkelsen (Rime), Bill Skårsgard (Lantern), and Joel Kinnaman (Undertow). Unfortunately, Nereid Black are not yet available as a playable faction
in-game.
El Cártel de Los Sietes, from Oaxaca, Mexico, and operating in multiple cities across the gulf United States. Their leader is Carlos Miguel Mencia de
Vargas, known by his nickname El Tiburón (The Shark, by his strikingly distinct tattoo depicting a set of skeletal shark jaws that he bears on the
underside of his chin and along the front of his neck) In the game, the player, as Spook, fights numerous Los Sietes members during the mission
Pandora's Box. El Tiburón is not featured as a character in-game as is only mentioned in the mission dossier file, which also includes a photo of him.
The player can also encounter a team of Los Sietes sicarios as Romeo during the mission Down Rodeo. 11 Los Sietes are seen taking cover inside a
street-level bar named the K Lounge (based on the real-life R Bar located at 3331 W 8th St, Los Angeles, CA 90005, USA), exchanging fire with a
25-man detachment of North Korean motorized shock troops positioned in a parking lot partially hidden behind a strip mall section building across
the intersection. These eleven Cartel men are not normally hostile to the Player or his allies, though they will fire back if fired upon by the Player or his
team, or if they spot them trying to enter the bar or approach them past a certain distance.
At this point the player can either choose to:
●​

ignore the engagement and move along, taking advantage of the Los Sietes drawing the DPRK troops’ fire away from the intersection, or
to defeat the North Koreans, after which the Los Sietes retreat, remaining neutral towards the player

●​

circle and flank the North Koreans by taking a back alley route and going down the next street to the south, moving halfway the block,
then take a back alley to the north to emerge in an extremely well covered position in the southeastern corner of the enemy-occupied
parking lot, giving you the upper hand and an opportunity to lay a destructive ambush. After you defeat the North Koreans, the Los Sietes
retreat without becoming hostile.

●​

take out the Los Sites first, and then defeat the remaining North Koreans (quite a difficult fight, since the LS are no joke in combat and
there are 11 of them, and you are also likely to be shot at by the DPRK troops the whole time.)

●​

Wait for one side to win, and then defeat the other, and move along. Again, if the Los Sietes happen to win on their own, they retreat,
ignoring the player, unless previously attacked by them.

Should the Player choose one of the latter two options, they are rewarded by an opportunity to collect another of the game's rare weapons, a CMMG
Mk47 7.62x39mm assault rifle, dropped by one of the cartel sicarios. This weapon is especially useful during the tail end of the first campaign, given
that Russian 7.62 ammo is reasonably often found in enemy vehicles and supply stashes, and dropped by enemies that the player encounters.
The Los Sietes sicarios, on their own, are quite formidable enemies, using elite-level tactics to outmaneuver the player. Though outnumbered in this
encounter, they often are able to hold their own against the enemy shock troops detachment (the battle is not scripted, so it ends up playing out
differently on each playthrough).
The Los Sietes happen to possess 2 vehicles parked outside the bar (a full-size domestic sedan and a 7-seat SUV). If the vehicles are destroyed but
the Los Sietes defeat the shock troops, they retreat on foot through the rear door of the building into the alleyway. If the cars are still in drivable
condition, the Cartel men use either one or both of them to get away. If six out of the eleven sicarios are left, and only the sedan is drivable (with 5
seats), one of the sicarios rides sitting with his legs inside the rear passenger-side side door window of the sedan.
There is another similar SUV that appears to have been destroyed and is stuck burning in the middle of the intersection, indicating that the Los Sietes
may have sought cover inside the bar after the first vehicle of their motorcade got hit and destroyed by North Korean fire.
(Real life MACV-SOG tactic for sabotaging enemy ammunition and ordnance caches: replacing some bullets in an AK magazine with hollowed-out
bullets filled with PETN demolition explosive. This causes catastrophic failure of the ammunition inside the weapon when fired, often severely
wounding or killing the operator. 82mm mortar rounds can be similarly sabotaged to explode inside the mortar tube while being fired)
//The final mission Sins of Our our Fathers gets his name from a quote spoken by Goldberg during the finale:
“Spend enough time doing what I do, and you begin to see it for what it is. An empire built on the sins of our fathers that keeps them alive to haunt
their children. To remind them of their place. Of who they are and of what they must do.”
//Goldberg is cynical about his role as KINGMAKER. To him, this role is but a means to an end, his true desire being to control the will of other people,
and to spread his genetic information. He is obsessed with MKULTRA and eugenics, and uses his position to obtain victims for his covert mind control
and breeding programs, the former of which he runs mainly out of the underground facility beneath Montoya Farm. He sees human society as defiled
by weakness manifesting as moralist liberal ideology, and considers its moral and legal standards obsolete and a major hindrance to the powerful
people's true potential for achieving greatness and the betterment of (rich white) men. At his core, Goldberg is just another billionaire with zero
empathy and with a way of thinking largely disconnected from reality, but the role he plays as KINGMAKER makes him much more dangerous than as
if he were just that.
//Underground at the Montoya Farm the player may explore spaces not immediately tied to objectives to discover several creepy collectibles, and can
peer through a hidden vent in one of the rooms to see a man in coveralls hosing blood off tiles and a stainless steel operating table.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
The player cannot access this room directly.
// The Player can also stumble upon a locked ”Ludovico Room” with a one-way mirror wall that seems to be used to subject victims to some kind of
brainwashing method involving forced consumption of selected stimuli. A segment of the footage used in these procedures can be seen on a screen
by the Player, and the desk seems to contain patient “treatment” logs for several subjects. Is this what the KYSC from the hotel had been subjected
to?
//Cold Plunge - The flashback mission that tells the story of a young on military exercise Cold Frontier 07 Frost narrowly surviving the encounter with
Russian Vympel in Lapland the let to one of his comrades Jussi being killed by the attackers, and to Frost taking a 9mm bullet to the face point blank
before tumbling 96 feet off a cliff and into an icy lake, where he fought and killed the Vympel operators with his bare hands before pulling himself
partly ashore and losing consciousness. The discovery of the body of the unmarked Vympel operator posed a serious threat of causing an
international incident, which was then averted by a covert diplomatic deal between Finland, NATO, and Russia that ended in reports of the incident
being buried and inquiries into the matter suppressed. It was pretty much Frost's refusing to die that day that threatened to blow the Russians’ false
flag attempt codenamed Parhelion-53 (Pargelyi-53) wide open in front of the world, so the Russians decided to take a safer way out of this
predicament, too, and agreed to bury the whole thing.
// Scene for Romeo's campaign in the sequel:
//Jesse Welles - Good Morning, America - the song that plays as the camera pans over an early-morning view of the main street of a small American
town at about roof height to gradually reveal the Russian flag, Russian troops in the streets and roadblocks. With signs and damage from recent
combat hinting at the town having been recently occupied. One or 2 houses are houses I the street can be seen to have been reduced to burnt-out
husks, their surviving inhabitants and a small group of helpful volunteer civilians with shovers and hoses are combing through the smoldering
wreckage, trying to salvage what little is still usable from the rubble. This could be the opening to the part where you covertly support American
resistance groups in Russian occupied US territories. The juxtaposition of an acoustic guitar protest song on top of red-dawn-esque imagery of
familiar landscape of small town America marred by the jarring symbols of foreign occupation : foreign flags and military insignia, roadblocks and
checkpoints to restrict civilian freedom of movement, uniformed patrols of occupying forces in the streets, ordinary people's lives ground to a
near-halt by the brutality of the experience. It should make the player feel surreal seeing the sight on their own through the Player’s eyes.
//Later in the sequel story line of Romeo's campaign, Cody Beaumont's death is not discussed in detail, but during a missing loading screen, the
images show, among other things a picture of a young male, late 20s, shown deceased and suspended by the neck from an overhead highway gantry,
a cardboard plaque crudely taped to his chest bearing the following inscription in both Russian Cyrillic and in English: An American traitor to the
Russian Federation who conspired with the enemy to lead American soldiers on to Russian positions and helped them cruelly murder brave Russian
men. May his death be a warning to those who seek to follow his ways.
The man’s body seems to indicate him having suffered a devastating and torturous death at the hands of his chapters who sought his death to be an
example to other insurgents in the towns of Calloway, KY and the nearby Redbud community. It is never specified that this is what really happened to
Cody that none of the game characters want to fully acknowledge out loud, the image does not confirm this explicitly. The connection is merely
implied, strategically ambiguous, and ultimately left for the player to make.
// Sequel character.
Vyacheslav “Slava” Timofeevich Glushkin - FSB field officer attached to the occupying force that controls the areas of Calloway and Redbud. He is
seen by the player interviewing Gene Marlow during the second mission Low Ground in Romeo's sequel story campaign Good Morning, America.
Glushkin is likely a major antagonist of Romeo's sequel campaign, and the Player as Romeo gets a chance to kill him during one of his late-campaign
missions in the sequel story. He is a seasoned FSB “illegal”, an agent who had spent extensive time on covert intelligence assignment inside a foreign
country, awaiting to be activated by his handlers at the Kremlin. Glushkin has lived and operated in the US under the falsified FSB cover identity of
aerospace electrical engineer Brent Tibbets from Haverhill, Massachusetts.
Glushkin’s cover persona is extremely convincing. He speaks perfect American English and is well versed in American culture and the realities of
everyday life of Americans. He is not likely to be fooled by most disguises and subterfuge manoeuvres done by the Americans, which is why he is in
the position that he is in at the moment.
His demeanor and style of behavior are heavily based on Christoph Waltz’s character portrayal of the Nazi officer Obersturmbahnführer Landa in the
film Inglorious Basterds by Quentin Tarantino. His looks are completely distinct from Landa’s character, and Glushkin is not a direct callback to Landa,
but is meant to come across as a similar archetype of antagonist. Sophisticated, complex, educated, brilliantly intelligent, charming and
conversationally apt, and well-composed, but hiding a brutally decisive and surgically precise mind with an undeniable killer instinct underneath the
facade.
//Glushkin's full patronymic name is Vyacheslav Timofeevich Glushkin
According to information obtained by the CIA from exfiltrated FSB intelligence records data, Tibbets was born as Vyacheslav Timofeevich Glushkin in
1982 in the city of Volgodonsk, Rostov Oblast, RSFSR, Soviet Union.
Owing to his family’s social status and his father’s Communist Party connections, Glushkin was able to earn a Translation, Linguistics, and
Cross-Cultural Communication degree in English and Mandarin from MGIMO (Moscow State institute of international relations), followed by 18
months of clandestine Linguistics training in English at a covert FSB training facility in Korolyov near Moscow, and then another 18 months of FSB
officer training at the Academy of the Russian Federal Security Service in Moscow.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
Following the training, he was given the assigned manufactured identity of Brent Henry Tibbets (the stolen or “ghost” identity of a 24 year-old
homeless substance-addicted man without any known living relatives, originally from Haverhill, MA, whose whereabouts have been unaccounted for
since approximately 9 months before the start of Glushkin's deep cover assignment. No one ever reported Tibbets missing, or inquired about his
welfare or whereabouts since his disappearance. There is no official record of Tibbets’s actual remains ever being recovered or identified. There is no
death certificate to his name, and the body is likely still out there, and has either been misidentified as someone else or buried as a John Doe after no
one had come forward to identify or claim his remains. His disappearance from the face of the earth went under the radar of the authorities, which
made Tibbets the perfect cover identity that the FSB needed to plant Glushkin in deep cover inside the United States), and dispatched to the
northeast of the US as an illegal posing as a newly enrolled student at MIT. With the aid of FSB influence and financing, Glushkin earned an admission
to the electrical engineering and aeronautics engineering programs at MIT at age 25, and managed to complete both degrees by age 29. At age 30,
he used the connections he had built at MIT to land an engineering job with Specter Aerospace at the company headquarters located in Peabody,
MA.
Glushkin speaks 9 foreign languages fluently (that’s 10 languages total, if we include his native Russian): English, Mandarin, Arabic, Spanish.
Portuguese, French, Greek, German, and Farsi. He is also well-versed in the history of English, and to a large extent also a history of Chinese
languages, and also has solid knowledge of ancient Greek and Latin. He can also speak conversational level Chechen.
Glushkin is known to semi-competitively play chess, and is proficient at using standard Russian military infantry weapons, owing to his FSB combat
training.
// Sequel note
Suggested campaign titles for the sequel
Campaign 1: (Romeo) American Freedom
Campaign 2: (Ducky) AEGIS Falls (working title)
Campaign 3: (Spook) Godkiller
// Sequel lore note: suggestion for a late game lore name:
The movement that Romeo helps start in Calloway, KY, later (potentially after the campaigns events), expands to incorporate smaller resistance cells
in other occupied cities and becomes known as the American Freedom Corps (AFC)
// Sequel note:
China must likely become a major World War Three player in the second game given that with the US cyber capabilities temporarily knocked out it has
effectively become the world's premier digital and military superpower. Not to mention that by annexing Taiwan, China monopolized access to one of
a kind strategic chip foundry facilities
The sequel’s story should show China, having already annexed Taiwan during the tail end of the story of the first game, making moves on territories in
South Asia and the middle east. China is also likely to open a South Pacific Front with NATO by attacking the northeastern coast of Australia. Possible
playable mission in the sequel where you fight a Chinese invasion force off an on the Australian Coast
//Sequel plot note for Ducky's story
At some point the narrative must lead the Player through Ducky's point of view to question who exactly built AEGIS? Who were the architects? Where
did the technology and the funding necessary to build and operate it actually come from?
We know it is supposed to be an “accountable” way of using a fictional EU equivalent of real life palantír software.
And that ties back to the earlier questions. Who made it? European defense companies? Or did the EU buy it? If so, then who from?
These should be the threads that the Player must pull on as the progress on their story.
//Sequel note: Plot suggestion for Ducky's campaign story:
Bring back the Grim and the Nereid Black Team in the mission Hill Breach, where they come to the rescue of the Player and their team who are
trapped aboard a ship (or a submarine after, say getting caught by the FSB, and are being taken to a Russian extrajudicial prison. Nereid can pull a
daring assault on the submarine while it is still in port, scuttling it, dealing significant damage to Russian naval capabilities in the Baltics and the North
Sea, and exfiltrating the AEGIS operators to safety in the process).
//Sequel note: suggestion for a mission in Ducky's campaign
Defend Europe’s only ASML lithography machine from Chinese (?) sabotage.
// First game Ducky's campaign note
Change Faroe islands to Svalbard, because it is colder and better for the location of the main AEGIS datacenter.

//SEQUEL PLOT OUTLINE DEVELOPMENT PROMPT:


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
I like the overall architecture of the story that you propose, because it also makes for what I believe to be an exciting change in the play style of the
other two playable characters (Ducky and Spook). The way the threads are interwoven and built has the potential to make the story quite riveting and
to seed some strong threads to lead into the likely 3rd-game storyline (we should not get too deep into the 3rd sequel, IMHO, but soon, we might get
an opportunity after we flesh out what we have already partially built).
Now regarding the significant course-altering campaign event that reaches into all 3 campaign stories, resulting in each campaign's main story
character experiencing this event from a unique perspective, that ties together at the end of the story with the other main character's narrative
perspectives. I have to admit, this is a brilliant plot device that I have also been mulling over introducing, but I have not yet firmly decided on what the
actual event is. I have a few ideas on what this central event could be, I'll tell you mine, and then I'll be keen to hear the suggestion that you mentioned
you have for how this event could be treated in the different characters' campaign storylines.
Here are my rough ideas and suggestions for what the event could be:
●​

Goldberg secretly has a falling out with President Crodyn over matters of deciding what the best damage control is to deal with some
unintended and unexpected developments in the global war that their conspiracy plan just started. Crodyn, having achieved the desired
state of national instability that paved his way to suspending the US election, and being awarded an unconstitutional 3rd term in the Oval
Office as a "wartime president" (As argued by compromised US Supreme Court justices Creighton Howard and Walter Pedilla in their
notes on the SCOTUS's ruling that the two-term presidential limit in office can be temporarily suspended under specific extraordinary
circumstances, such as in the event of a nationwide emergency or an ongoing war on the territory of the contiguous United States), and
after having used vicious jingoistic rhetoric to (falsely) assign blame for the West Coast Pandora attacks on China in the global news
media, framing it in public as an unprovoked act of foreign military aggression aimed against the United States, Crodyn is terrified of the
Russian's strategic pivot towards successful capture and occupation of large swathes of territory of the US east coast. Crodyn, panicking
after the secret deal falls apart, leading Russian President Baranov, North Korean Supreme Leader Kim Yon-Chol, and the Iranian Supreme
Leader Hojjatollah Sayyid Mehrdad Esfandiari to renege on the secretive backroom deals they had previously made with Crodyn's people
in the Riptide Red Circle under the pretext of "going along" with Crodyn's US staged US coup plot (masquerading as a legitimate US
national security response to a Chinese cyberattack) (The topmost intelligence people in Russia, Iran, the DPRK, and in China knew better
at that point than to disturb an enemy who's about to make a fatal mistake), is furious with Goldberg over the failure of the deal, accusing
him of sabotaging the plan to to try to eventually oust Crodyn and hand America right over to its adversaries under the guide of a puppet
government, propped up by people behind KINGMAKER and Riptide Red. Crodyn demands that Goldberg "makes the whole thing go
away" or to otherwise get it back under control by any attainable means. At the height of this private altercation, Crodyn goes as far as to
threaten Goldberg that if he tries to "grow a brain" of his own and seek to throw Crodyn and his political allies under the bus to protect his
ow Status as KINGMAKER, Crodyn will expose him to the public, which for a man in Goldberg's position would effectively be a death
sentence at this point (With his secret role exposed to the public, every intelligence agency and doomsday cult in the world would come
after Goldberg, some for revenge, others seeking to learn what he knows. Others, still, who might seek to overthrow him and take his
place as KINGMAKER, or to simply bring his head on a platter to whoever happens to promise to pay the most for it. Goldberg would
become “radioactive” overnight, ensuring that he is disavowed by his institutional protectors, leaving him exposed and extremely
vulnerable). Faced with an impossible choice and looming betrayal by his likely most powerful co-conspirator, Goldberg resolves to pull a
surprising move: he defies Crodyn’s will and lets himself be apprehended and arraigned in court by US authorities on charges of
mishandling sensitive documents related to the investigation of the KYSC bombing that led to the destruction of the Desautels Resort
Hotel in Miami during the events of the first game. He is given a lenient plea deal by a Florida state prosecutor Lawrence Kaylor
(fictionalized version of former US Florida State Attorney and later Trump cabinet nominee Alex Acosta), and sentenced to a total of 24
months in federal, with earlier parole eligibility no less than 6 months into his sentence, contingent on his behavior at the Coleman Federal
Medium-Security Correctional Facility in Sumterville, FL. A few weeks into Goldberg’s serving out his prison sentence, the Sumterville
penitentiary is attacked by an elite Los Sietes Cartel operations team in a highly-coordinated prison-break operation led by Edgar Murillo
“Bisutrí” Lozada Arias (sometimes also referred to as “El Biz” by some in-game character), El Tiburón’s second- in-command (Arias’s
nickname means “scalpel” in Spanish, an unmistakable hint to the Player about how the Los Sietes’ top sicario is known to operate,
referring simultaneously to the brutality, precision and efficiency of the methods that he chooses to employ in achieving his objectives).
The attack on the prison causes massive damage, leading to the near-complete destruction of one of the facility’s blocks, in the course of
which Goldberg is declared dead, having been killed by the explosion that almost completely destroyed one the prison’s cell block that
Goldberg was held in. It is later revealed that this incident has been a deliberate cover up to conceal Goldberg’s covert extraction by
Bisutri’s team (with the help of Cartel contacts inside the US bureau of prisons, Goldberg and the Los Sietes orchestrate a bait-and-switch
operation planting a mutilated corpse contaminated with Goldberg’s DNA to fabricate evidence of Goldberg’s death during the attack).
The world is convinced that Goldberg is dead, but he has just gone deeper into hiding to recover his resources and launch a clandestine
intelligence “counter-offensive” operation against Crodyn and his circle to reclaim his status as KINGMAKER. I’m thinking Spook might be
able to catch up to Goldberg at this point in his story, prompting an interesting “Dead Man Walking" narrative angle which can, through use
of irony, be relatable to both Spook’s and Goldberg’s current situation at that point in the story. Goldberg being officially dead puts an


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
interesting spin on Spooks narrative, as he is now on a hunt “to kill someone who is already dead”, and knowing full well that the staged
death only serves to put Goldberg ever further out of reach of those seeking to make him accountable for his past transgressions. It is as
if by dying Goldberg has transcended to an even more elusive form of power broker - no longer a mere man, but a kind of false god,
which leads Regent, Spook, and the rest of the Victor Two Bravo team to ask the momentous questions ”How do you kill a god?” echoing
Regent’s words spoken earlier in-game dialogue, and the overall title of Spooks’s campaign’s story. I have no yet decided on the exact
shape of the final climactic confrontation between Spook and Goldberg, but I know we’ve made a rough sketch of that earlier, so later, we
can come back to it and flesh it out when we have crystallized other parts of the story that we must figure out first.​
●​

Another possible suggestion, an alternative main structural campaign event that overlaps in different angles with all three playable
storylines, could be centered around a nuclear strike somewhere in the west. A massive irreversible significant event, with a complicated
background of muddy international geopolitical intrigue. We can choose how we develop this in terms of specific plot points. Will it be
revealed to be yet another distraction perpetrated by Crodyn and his conspirators to lead the public away from the US administration’s
crimes? Is the attack an unplanned consequence of another , yet unknown insurgency or hidden power struggle inside one of the enemy
State powers? Is the attack an escalation to the next phase of the world war? We can choose whichever fits best given the eventual
development of the rest of the story.

●​

The third, but least-developed alternative that I have considered so far is that the momentous overarching event that touches and
influences the story in significant ways could be someone (either one of the player characters directly, or another main story character)
revealing the betrayal of a highly trusted and influential person within either DAOG or some other entity that has heretofore been either
seen as either benevolent, beneficial or neutral towards the players goal. This betrayal reframes this character or entity as hostile and
creates a new sense of pressure, tension and friction that could drive the story in new directions. I don't have any more specific
suggestions to this point yet, but if this proves a viable plot point that we can later develop further, I am happy to revisit and flesh it out
some more.

Out of the three rough ideas that I laid out above, which one do you think makes for the best storytelling development opportunities? AlsoI am now
genuinely curious about the suggestions that you have for what this critical story plot event might be.

//Sequel note: flavor idea for campaign story teaser trailers
Romeo’s Story (American Freedom) Teaser video is: set to Jesse Welles Good Morning America, The tagline: War Hits Home. American Freedom.
Coming Q2 2028
Ducky’s Story; Teaser video sequence is set to Kyiv by Apashe and Alina Pash, The tagline: We Are Taking Our Home Back. AEGIS Falls. Coming Q2
2028
Spook’s Story; Teaser video set to King Nothing by Metallica, The tagline: How Do You Kill A Man Who’s Already Dead? Godkiller, Coming Q2 2028
//Main character.backstory note: Romeo
Pablo Ignacio “El Furtivo” Hernández Díaz - High ranking Los Sietes-affiliated human trafficker and close business associate of Goldberg 's. Frequently
sources people for Goldberg's Miontoya Farm projects. He is the one who gets broken out of Sumterville, FL prison, while a second team of attackers
work with paid-off correctional staff to plant a fake and badly mangled corpse of “Goldberg” with Goldberg's DNA in it in one for the open cells, and
the move to the medical Bay where the bribed guards have brought Goldberg lying on a gurney, covered head-to-toe with a white sheet. Goldberg,
however, is alive and well (the Cartel’s prison staff contacts, having been tipped off about the time of the break, have secured Goldberg in the prison’s
medical Wing on the pretext of a necessary medical checkup). The cartel men usher Goldberg into an oblong blocks coffin-like box, which he lies
down in for the cartel men to secure the lid and order the COs to take the box out the back of the medical wing and load it into a waiting hearse
(positioned inside the prison facility several hours prior to the breakup by a Cartel team.). They then motion for the COs to drive, while the Cartel men
themselves follow the hearse in their own black SUV. All the while the fighting in the other wing of the prison is still ongoing, mostly among prisoners,
given that El Furtivo and his extraction team are likely already gone by that point. The chaos helps the attackers verte cover their escape and keep she
ckreftik alsecurotu staff busy with riot control and too busy to chat the cartel during their exfiltration
// Second-game character idea:
Yelena “Eli” Dimitrievna Volkova - the real identity of Laura Isabela “La Avispa” Tejada Rojas - a former FSB covert surveillance specialist, who defected
following an operation gone awry, she eventually found her new identity as one of The Los Sietes top people trackers. If you're looking for someone
out there, she’ll find them, typically for a price. She is a high-ranking enforcer and gets her name from her general proficiency at using blades of
various length and types as weapons. But, make no mistake, Laura just as easily knows her way around a firearm and will easily handle anything from a
.22 suppressed pistol to a mounted machinegun, when the situation calls for it.
Appearance-wise, La Avispa is Caucasian with mildly ethnically ambiguous facial features. Her hair is dark and on the shorter side, with a few
occasional faint streaks of grey, parted neatly down the center. Her exact age is not known but she could be in her late 30s, possibly early 40s, as


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
estimated based on data available about her background. She is 5ft 5in in height, and 115 lbs. She appears to have an elaborate Japanese-style full
back and front piece tattoo covering her entire torso and extending to also cover most of her arms. She may possibly have other tattoos that have not
yet been documented.
// Plot dynamic idea note:
Add a few missions in the second-game campaign for Spook where he must work with La Avispa, despite initial suspicion, the plot forces them into
dramatic situations giving them no other option but to depend on each other to pull through. This grows into a quiet trust and a unique sort of bond
and understanding between Spook and La Vespa. By the end of their mutual ordeal, Spook learns a lot of her private story; her youth growing up near
the black sea coast in southern Russia, her promising career in the Russian intelligence community, the fateful botched surveillance operation that got
her burned by her team and superiors. Her defection from Russia and her life on the run first through Venezuela, then to Cuba, Panama and finally to
Mexico, her finding her way back to the criminal underworld, and her rise to prominence with the Los Sietes, … And she will learn a little bit about
Spook's story, too. And just for a moment, maybe, there is something, something like a fleeting moment of feeling, of longing, of strange romantic
tension. But none of that has time to develop into anything more defined for now, because the story inevitably forces Spook and La Avispa to part
ways, perhaps so that one day they could meet again another day.
//Second game lore idea:
UNHMNA - The name of the United Nations Humanitarian Mission to North America formed and dispatched to the United States and to the border
adjacent areas of northern Mexico and southern Canada affected by the PANDORA attacks to deal with casualties, food, clean water, and medical
supply shortages, and lack of basic critical infrastructure functionality due to widespread damage caused in the aftermath of the attack. Crodyn,
having over his previous years in office all but dismantled FEMA, and US federal disease relief capabilities in general, through his corrupt cronyism,
faux-reformist policymaking and shady, often insider, business dealings, ensured that when the attacks hit and most of the East Coast was taken out,
while the army was stuck defending what they could of the west coast and pushing the enemy out to stabilize the region, there was not enough
capacity left to help even a fraction of the people in need. Their presence in game produces another jarring image that juxtaposes the iconic
appearance of American cityscapes and suburbia with images of white UN humanitarian aid tents, and checkpoints featuring the iconic white-liveried
UN military vehicles manned by troops in foreign (as in, non-American) looking camouflage fatigues, and donning their signature blue-colored
military helmets. This kind of imagery is historically associated with European African and South East Asian military conflicts in the era between the
1980s and 2010s (The previous conflict in Gaza, Iran-Iraq war, The Gulf War, the Yugoslav Wars, Eritrea. Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Libya, Timor Leste,
GWOT, ,... ) and the game’s visual design juxtaposes it into a familiar landscape and environment in a way that is uniquely unsettling and jarring to
western viewers especially. The time has changed, but the implications of human loss. hardship, and suffering that this imagery evokes are the same
regardless of time and place. As part of this mission, 2 hospital ships, the Dawn of Mercy and the Beacon of Hope are dispatched to UN controlled
ports on the US’s eastern seaboard.
// Event timing note - first game.
The canonical storyline date for the “big” nationwide PANDORA attacks (the one that happens at the same time as spook confronts Goldberg on East
McFarlane Island, at the end of his first-game campaign) in the United States is September 3rd 2028, 2 months and 3 days before the upcoming US
Presidential Election. The US West Coast attacks were first reported on by local media at 1033 PST. Massive infrastructure outages and a partly
deliberate communications blackout slowed down the spread of the reports nationally and internationally.
// Gameplay idea.m note: Use the Inspect weapon key/button to view the controls for all attachments that are currently on your weapon.
//Character background flavor note: Romeo
How Romeo got his nickname. Romeo got his nickname during his Ranger School Selection course. He was a young corporal at that time, though
exceptionally physically fit, and a solid, though not well experienced and had a rather poor set of boundaries with respect to the strictness of life in the
military. One day during Richard's school selection, Romeo was approached by one of the drill sergeants who needed to help complete the physical
task and he repeatedly addressed Ramon which was his name at the time Romeo's name of the time as Romeo as refusing to acknowledge his real
name. So at one point the sergeant motioned for Romeo to follow him outside to the site of the actual physical task that he wanted him to perform.
Romeo said quite out loud as the drill sergeant that is back turned to him, in his native Spanish: “Me llano Ramón, cabrón! ”. After that, the entire
platoon was ordered out into the rain and Romeo was smoked by the Dale Sergeant for 25 minutes straight up. After that, the nickname kind of stuck
and overtime and Romeo just accepted it as part of his identity as a soldier. His sense of boundaries in terms of military convention and proper
conduct has also vastly improved since then.
//
Gennadiy Fyodorovich Lipnin; Very high ranking KGB officer, who went to work for the FSB after the fall of the iron curtain. He is one of the chief
strategists of the program that planted agents like Glushkin and Lebedev. He operated as a senior officer based at the FSB headquarters in Moscow,
and closely oversees the deep cover asset exploitation and coordination, sometimes, almost on a day to day level and performs detailed inquisitive
check-ins with subordinate operational officers.
//
Douglas Paul Nasmith; born: Grigoryi Pavlovich Lebedev, in: Nizhnyi Novgorod, USSR, on: March 11 1970, 58 years old (in the story timeline)Russian
economist and FSB deep cover operative living in Boston, MA for 33 years under a manufactured Identity. Working as head of the Finance department
at Boston City Hall. Lebedev is activated approximately 3 months before the PANDORA attacks, and upon making contact with his handlers he is
given a series of operational tasks that are part of a plan to facilitate a takeover of the city of Boston upon invasion by receiving cookies of the city's
infrastructure documentation, service access route maps, Intel indicating and locating exploitable, structural vulnerabilities, and strategically placed
defensible chokepoints inside the city’s densest built-up areas. It was Lebedev’s designated assignment upon activation, to find, gather, secure, and
deliver to the FSB precisely this kind of information. Upon receiving the order from his handler to do so. Lebedev activated Glushkin.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
//Note: Spook's campaign in the sequel includes a ironic narrative twos on the Flood the zone with shit” statement by the real-life Steve Bannon,
Tripper ends up using the hardware implant from Montoya Farm implant covertly feed disinformation to poison what its users are certain is an
impenetrable private communications network, sowing confusion, impeding logistics and coordination and stochastically fomenting conflict among
normally complicit parties by feeding fake intel about the other collaborators’ covert activities against their associates’ business interests.. In doing so,
Tripper weaponizes targeted manufactured disinformation to wage informational warfare on those words earlier done the same to the rest of the
world. In other words, Tripper manages to turn the tables on the Shadow Underground and flood their “zone” with the same kind of proverbial shit.
We should put a subtle nod to it somewhere in Spook's second-game campaign.


[PDF PAGE BREAK]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------